# MineCW
Minecraft Class Wars
Description of each class and type.
Power - 
Power classes rely on their damage and tanking damage to get around. They are slow, and cannot heal quickly. Power classes biggest advantage is their ability to kill in 2-3 hits.
Soldier: Relies on enemies being far away. However, unlike Defense classes, Soldier can push and tank the damage dealt to him. (While keeping his distance). Soldier is the slowest damage dealer, leading him to having more health. Soldier has the lowest skill ceiling due to his lack of utility and reliance on the map, which makes him the easiest to learn with.
Heavy: The best Power class. This is due to his any range damage dealing range and shield. Heavy can take cover from most damage sources and jump out. Heavy is a defensive class as well, making it so his foes HAVE to run away or finish the fight. Heavy is the best class for holding an area, due to his strength and power in fights. Heavy also has good utility to get around places that normal classes can’t. He can also blind people, forcing them to run away.
Wall: Similar to Heavy and Hipnotist, Wall relies on surpising his enemy. However, he has less health than any of the other Power classes. Leading him to be the most “burst” damage class. Wall also relies on close range, as he has no way to move. Wall is the hardest and most rewarding class to play as for Surpising the enemy with power. His shield allows him to hide, however, unlike heavy, he cannot fly away.
Defense - 
Can hold an area well on their own. While they can move fast, other classes must travel to them, as their characters heal quickly and can run away if someone comes too close. However, unlike Offense classes, Defense classes FORCE players to travel to you. 
Sniper: Sniper is unlike any other class, as they can 2 shot 10 out of the 11 classes. Dispite having a bow, high speed, and amazing damage, Sniper cannot “push” players, as their arrows deal 18 damage in total, their is a glow period where the player is given Absorption V for a long amount of time. The sniper cannot shoot the glowing player for a while, as the damage will deal little to none. This prevents sniper from pushing players, as they will be pushed back, allowing TIME for the enemy to heal. Instead, the sniper must find a point, and hit players from afar. Due to snipers axe & speed, Sniper can take care of heavy/wall’s shield. 
Tree Chopper: Tree Chopper has a variety of tools at their disposal. While they CAN push, they are better at defending. It's their “safe” space. Roots potions stop players from pushing, and their tree potion lets the Tree Chopper push players with OUT without being in an offensive position. For example, tree chopper can hide in a building. If the tree chopper uses their roots potion to cover doorways, their isn’t much enemies can do to enter. IF an enemy is pestering them from further away, or gets caught in their trap, the tree chopper can push them away or kill them using the tree potion. The tree potion offers speed, but in return, deals damage to the tree chopper.
Offense -
	Cannot hold an area, but push others OFF an area. They move faster than any other class. Their strong suit is moving and stunning players. However, their damage is much lower than other classes and they can be easily countered by other classes.
Scout: Scout is terrible at close and far range combat. They lack the necessary ability to fight via burst damage. Scout strong point is midrange speed fights. Dealing consistent damage over time rather than 2-4 burst shots is how the class has been balanced. Classes like heavy must trick the scout into pursuing them in a dead end, where as sniper must hit them to cause them to run away. Scout is always 2 hit kill by 5 classes. 3 hit kill by 4 classes. This is due to scout’s light health and medium defense. Scout is about skill, where other classes are about aim, accuracy & consistency.
Hypnotist: This class is a doozy to explain. At a first glance, hypnotist LOOKS like a defense class, especially with his slower speed and mobility. However, Hypnotist’s specialization is stunning players than ambushing them while they are stunned. This is what separates the wall from the hypnotist. Hypnotist is a class of precision rather than skill. The counter attack done by enemies when stunned increases their damage value by 9. Classes like sniper, scout, and soldier, can take advantage of their blindness by listening to where you teleported to, then using their melee to obliterate you faster than your attack.
Generalist - 
	Generalists Generalize in all areas. They are “good” in all situations. Health, movement, Damage, Utility, and Recovery are all “good.” There is nothing they “lack” in. They can fulfill any job required of them for any situation. Of course, in order to have some variety, some Generalists may lean in close range or damage over movement or flexibility.
	Assassin: Great at everything, from movement, escape, swimming, attacking, defending. The Assassin does everything extremely well. A unique feature (due to the quickcharge crossbow) of the Assassin is the ability to combo. By using the flytation potion, and the crossbow, you can combo people in the air without anything they can do. Your arrows deal slightly 3 extra damage apon hitting a target. They will be glowing, allow you to track them down. Their is no “weakness” for the Assassin. The Assassin is a skill based class, similar to scout. This means that if your not good at it, you can’t just spam your way around. Assassin is best utilized with combo shots with 2 items. Being your sword, crossbow, or Flytation potion.
	Alchemist: While not a full on generalist (lacks in range), the Alchemist offers higher speed potential to reach its location. The Alchemist can defend a place using its lingering potions (not to the degree of Tree Chopper), or ambush players with their EVIL potions. The evil potions deal heavy damage, allowing for a bit of the offensive side to shine. Alchemist has the ability to bypass shields, fly around the map, blind players, and has the best heal potion in the game. Overall, alchemist deals burst damage rather than the assassin’s consistent combo damage.
Specialists - 
	Specialists are characters who are weaker, but fulfill a “specialty” extremely well. Whether it is by flying around the map, or going invisible. Specialists are weaker classes that can fulfill a niche better than anyone else 
	Flyer: Can sour through the air, making it the most mobile class. The flyer has many upsides, such as heavy damage, Lift potions, and the ability to escape most situations. However, This comes with some hefty downsides. A) Flyer cannot go inside, their tri-shot rocket launcher will hurt themselves more than the player they are trying to kill. B) Flyer needs to manage their health, Despite Flyers high health and ability to drink potions to negate rocket damage, the players can easily harm you, your 28 HP is not high considering the little damage you will deal from far away. 
	Spy: Goes invisible and deals heavy damage. However, the spy is the weakest class in health and armor. The Spy can be 1 shot by a sniper if they are not careful. And many classes can make you glow. Spy is a burst damage class, take advatage of the jumping
